# Repository of script used for mapping in '*A tale of two turkeys: Assessing the domestication status and origins of turkey remains (Meleagris gallopavo) from the 18<sup>th</sup> century Machault shipwreck through ancient DNA and stable isotope analysis*'
This repository contains an R script and associated data used for mapping site locations in the paper:

Jackman, Luke S., Vaughan, Tom, Royle, Thomas C.A., Guiry, Eric J., Dagneau, Charles, Speller, Camilla F., Noël, Stéphane, & Yang, Dongya Y. (in review). A tale of two turkeys: Assessing the domestication status and origins of turkey remains (*Meleagris gallopavo*) from the 18<sup>th</sup> century Machault shipwreck through ancient DNA and stable isotope analysis.


---

## Organization

The repository includes four directories:

- **`manuscript`**: Contains paper associated with repository. 
- **`data`**: Contains spreadsheet with site coordinates.  
- **`script`**: Contains R script used to generate map.  
- **`output`**: Contains map generated by script .  


---

## Files

### `manuscript`

- **`Jackman_et_al._A_tale_of_two_turkeys_manuscript.pdf`**: Published version of paper associated with repository.

### `script`

- **`Machault_mapping.R`**:  
  R script for mapping location of the wreck of the *Machault*, the cities of Montréal and Québec, and other geographic features. Input is `Machault_site_city_coordinates.xlsx`.


### `data`

- **`Machault_site_city_coordinates.xlsx`**:  
  Spreadsheet containing approximate coordinates for the wreck of the *Machault* and the cities of Montréal and Québec.

### `output`

- **`Machault_map_combined.tiff`**:
  Map (Figure 1 in paper) showing location of the wreck of the *Machault* and the cities of Montréal and Québec generated with R script. 


---

## R Session Info

R version 4.4.2 (2024-10-31)
Platform: aarch64-apple-darwin20
Running under: macOS Sequoia 15.4.1

Matrix products: default
BLAS:   /System/Library/Frameworks/Accelerate.framework/Versions/A/Frameworks/vecLib.framework/Versions/A/libBLAS.dylib 
LAPACK: /Library/Frameworks/R.framework/Versions/4.4-arm64/Resources/lib/libRlapack.dylib;  LAPACK version 3.12.0

locale:
[1] en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8/C/en_US.UTF-8/en_US.UTF-8

time zone: Europe/Oslo
tzcode source: internal

attached base packages:
[1] stats     graphics  grDevices utils     datasets  methods   base     

other attached packages:
[1] cowplot_1.1.3       openxlsx_4.2.8      ggspatial_1.1.9     rnaturalearth_1.0.1
[5] sf_1.0-19           ggplot2_3.5.1       here_1.0.1         

loaded via a namespace (and not attached):
 [1] gtable_0.3.6                  jsonlite_1.8.9                dplyr_1.1.4                  
 [4] compiler_4.4.2                zip_2.3.1                     tidyselect_1.2.1             
 [7] Rcpp_1.0.14                   textshaping_1.0.0             systemfonts_1.2.1            
[10] scales_1.3.0                  R6_2.5.1                      generics_0.1.3               
[13] classInt_0.4-11               tibble_3.2.1                  units_0.8-5                  
[16] munsell_0.5.1                 rprojroot_2.0.4               DBI_1.2.3                    
[19] pillar_1.10.1                 rlang_1.1.4                   stringi_1.8.4                
[22] terra_1.8-15                  cli_3.6.3                     withr_3.0.2                  
[25] magrittr_2.0.3                class_7.3-22                  grid_4.4.2                   
[28] rstudioapi_0.17.1             lifecycle_1.0.4               rnaturalearthhires_1.0.0.9000
[31] vctrs_0.6.5                   KernSmooth_2.23-24            proxy_0.4-27                 
[34] glue_1.8.0                    farver_2.1.2                  ragg_1.3.3                   
[37] codetools_0.2-20              e1071_1.7-16                  colorspace_2.1-1             
[40] httr_1.4.7                    tools_4.4.2                   pkgconfig_2.0.3

---

## Funding

This project has received funding from the European Research Council (ERC) under the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme (4-OCEANS, grant agreement No. 951649).

